
We're trying out some new stuff in this semester of CS3500, so I'd like your
feedback on what worked well and what has worked less well.

== Assignments ==

We've done homeworks 1 - 10 at this point. Of those...

1. Which homework was the most interesting? Why?
I found the threads and processes homework to be the most interesting and the 
assembly homeworks to be interesting. They seemed to interface most with the 
hardware and revealed a bit about how the computer architecture relates to 
software.

2. Which homework was the least interesting? Why?
I did not find the optimal memory allocator, sorting in C and shell homeworks 
to be as interesting. They seemed to be artificial in the sense that we were 
just building software on top of already functioning software. 

3. Which homework did you spend the most time stuck on? What got you stuck?
I spent the most time stuck on the shell, it was piping.

4. Do you have any suggestions for things that would have helped you spend less
time stuck?
Not really, just need to spend some time on it to get it right. 

5. Any other comments or suggestions on the homework in this course?
No, the homeworks were pretty fair. 


== Bottlenose ==

1. How has autograding improved your homework experience?
Lets me know when I have done something right.

2. How has autograding harmed your homework experience?
It can be frustrating when you can't get something to work on the autograder 
but it does work on your end.

3. What would you suggest to improve autograding?
It's pretty good now, just let students challenge the autograder if they think 
it is wrong.

4. Aside from autograding, what in Bottlenose works well?
Pretty much everything, it is easy to use.

5. Aside from autograding, what in Bottlenose works poorly? How would you
suggest we improve it?
Instead of posting .zip, let us upload entire folders


== Course ==

1. What do you like about the course structure?
No tests and homeworks are pretty easy.

2. What do you dislike about the course structure?
Would like to spend less time on individual system calls and more time on the 
general structure of computer systems. 

3. Do you think the grading structure in the course works well and is fair? If
not, what would you suggest to improve it?
I would say it is good, it might be better to have a mid term or final to help 
overloading all the grade into one category but there's no reason you 
shouldn't be able to do the homework

4. What can I do in the remainder of the semester to help you succeed in the
course?
Give us more direct advice on the homework.


5. What can you do in the remainder of the semester to help you succeed in the
course?
Do the readings.

6. Is going over homework solutions in class before the due date help or harm
your educational experience?
I think it helps in that homeworks are less stressful, but also harmful in 
that it becomes more about the specific homework problem and not the theory 
behind the homework.

7. What question is this survey missing? What would your answer be?
I don't think its missing any.

8. What other comments or suggestions do you have?
Overall my biggest problem with NEU in general is the focus is way too much on 
creating good workers out of people. We need the university, as students, to 
focus more on theory. In the end, we'll learn the practical details on co-op. 
Teach us the theory and inaccessible materials in class. For example, in this 
class, I would say focus more on computer systems as a theory and have 
homeworks geared toward theory. Also, give more time for classroom discussion 
about the theory/readings in the homework. 


